[docs] Update documentation on SCSI-based data storage (#20973)
deckhouse/deckhouse: docs/documentation/pages/admin/configuration/storage/external/SCSI.md

permalink: en/admin/configuration/storage/external/scsi.html
---

Deckhouse Kubernetes Platform (DKP) supports managing storage connected via iSCSI or Fibre Channel, enabling working with volumes at the block device level. This allows for the integration of storage systems with Kubernetes and management through a CSI driver.

This page provides instructions for connecting SCSI devices in DKP, creating SCSITarget, StorageClass, and verifying system functionality.

## Supported features

DKP supports:

- Detecting Logical Unit Numbers (LUN) via iSCSI or Fibre Channel.
- Creating PersistentVolume (PV) from pre-provisioned LUN.
- Deleting PersistentVolume and wiping data on LUN.
- Attaching LUN to nodes via iSCSI or Fibre Channel.
- Creating multipath devices and mounting them in pods.
- Detaching LUN from nodes.

## Limitations

DKP doesn't support:

- Creating LUN on storage systems.
- Resizing LUN.
- Creating snapshots.

## System requirements

The following requirements are applicable to the infrastructure and cluster nodes:

- A deployed and configured storage system providing access to LUN via iSCSI or Fibre Channel.

- For iSCSI connections:

>   - A unique iSCSI Qualified Name (IQN) must be configured on each Kubernetes node in the `/etc/iscsi/initiatorname.iscsi` file.

Reviewer: I suggest replacing "Kubernetes" with "DKP" or "clusters" as in the following paragraph.

### Creating an SCSITarget

> The [SCSITarget](/modules/csi-scsi-generic/cr.html#scsitarget) resource describes connection to a single SCSI target. Under `spec`, specify one of the connection types: [`iSCSI`](/modules/csi-scsi-generic/cr.html#scsitarget-v1alpha1-spec-iscsi) or [`fibreChannel`](/modules/csi-scsi-generic/cr.html#scsitarget-v1alpha1-spec-fibrechannel).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [SCSITarget](/modules/csi-scsi-generic/cr.html#scsitarget) resource describes connection to a single SCSI target. When creating a resource in `spec`, specify one of the connection types: [`iSCSI`](/modules/csi-scsi-generic/cr.html#scsitarget-v1alpha1-spec-iscsi) or [`fibreChannel`](/modules/csi-scsi-generic/cr.html#scsitarget-v1alpha1-spec-fibrechannel).
```
